# Wacky Taxi
Wacky Taxi is a C-Based game where you get to rush a VIP to the nearest airport to get them to their next meeting.
This C.E.O. is in such a rush that they tell you to step on it and they don't care about any tickets!
Use this opportunity to have some fun! *Just don't get in a crash!*

This game is created by Jongmin Lee and Nick Vazquez for SE 185 at Iowa State University Spring 2021.

## Under the hood

The application is based off of an `ncurses` program that interactively writes and updates a 2-D Matrix to a console.
This matrix stores the data for the current playing board, and is displayed to the user. An example board is as follows:

```c
char** board = {
        {' ', ' ', ' ', ' '},
        {'*', ' ', ' ', ' '},
        {' ', ' ', ' ', '*'},
        {' ', ' ', ' ', ' '},
        {' ', ' ', '*', ' '},
        {' ', ' ', ' ', ' '},
        {' ', '*', ' ', ' '},
        {' ', ' ', ' ', ' '},
        {' ', ' ', ' ', ' '},
        {' ', '^', ' ', ' '},
};

// Where:
// '*' == Other Car
// '^' == Player
```
**Note: The board above is not an exact representation of the current screen displayed to the user. Because sprites such
as cars and tress consume multiple screen spaces, the array above represent their symbolic locations in space. This
dramatically decreases the complexity of object collision detection.**


Because creating the above board for all games would be next to impossible, these boards will be generated by the
program at the start of the game based off of a few parameters:
```c
// 4 Lanes, 10 vertical positions
#define BOARD_ROWS 10
#define NUM_LANES 4
// Calculate the number of needed rows based on lanes - 2 for each side lane, lanes-1 for 
#define BOARD_COLS ((2 * NUM_LANES) + 1)
```
After the board is created, the game is able to manipulate the array to achieve desired results.

## Scoring
Scoring in Wacky Taxi is calculated by the number of obstacles the car has avoided. The games does not implement a
score because of the natural tendency of the game to speed up. For each obstacle avoided, the player is
awarded 20 points. At the end of the game the player high scores are displayed. If the player set a high score
this round, their score and name will be recorded.

## Sprites
Sprites are stored in the `resources/sprites` folder as 2-D ASCII Text arrays. 